[SWOOSHING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Welcome.
I'm your host, Dr.
Robert J. Gilbert.
In this episode, we will
explore four major secrets
of sacred geometry.
These secrets will guide us into
learning a very powerful method
which can activate any energy
center in your body or energy
field.
You'll learn in this episode
how to apply this method
to activate the most
important energy
center in the human head, what
in the Himalayan tradition
is called the Cave of Brahma.
This exploration will lead
us into the highest sources
of inspiration and
spiritual visions
and into the many levels of
our multidimensional world.
Our first great secret
of sacred geometry
reveals the true source of
all physical manifestation.
This secret is that
sacred geometry patterns
are, in reality, thought forms
in the mind of God, which
become the divine blueprints
for all of creation.
Let's start with an
important development
in human spiritual
evolution, that large numbers
of human beings are
increasingly experiencing
inner visions of
the sacred geometry
patterns behind
the physical plane,
along with visions
of the higher worlds
which interact
with the physical.
These sacred geometry
thought forms,
which more and more
people are experiencing,
are, in actuality, packets
of divine consciousness,
holding inside of them pure
structural patterns which then
move down from the
higher plains to manifest
on every level of creation.
These sacred
geometric visions can
come whenever we
release our contracted
perception of the physical world
and expand into deeper levels
of awareness.
In my 30 years of
publicly teaching
sacred geometry,
in every class, I
would have students tell me
that the pattern I had just
taught them was one that
they had seen before.
Students told me they had
seen the pattern internally,
in a dream, in a
vision, in an ayahuasca
journey, or other
psychotropic experience,
or in a transmission
from a spiritual teacher.
In some cases, they
had been taught
a specific sacred
geometry pattern
as a private secret of a
tradition into which they
received initiation, being told
they could never mention it
to anyone outside the tradition,
and then being astonished when
they found out in my
class that it was actually
a part of the complete sacred
geometry pattern language known
to multiple traditions.
Ancient traditions knew that
these sacred geometry patterns,
which underlie all of
creation, are in reality,
in their deepest
essence, thought forms
from the mind of God.
So our visions of these
sacred geometry patterns
can at their highest level
mean a literal communion
of our human mind
with the divine mind.
This experience can transform
our deepest sense of ourselves
and of what our true
potential really is.
This idea, that the
basis of creation
is sacred geometric
patterns, is related
to the findings of some
modern physicists, who
say that the evidence
in modern physics
shows that the essence
of all creation
is not physical matter,
but consciousness.
A key aspect of
consciousness being
the foundation of all existence
is that light and consciousness
are the exact same thing.
This is embedded in
Genesis, with creation
beginning with the statement,
"Let there be light."
Modern physics says that
everything is fundamentally
energy and that light exists
both as a physical particle
and as an energy wave.
Light is the fundamental
constant of nature,
linking the concepts of
physical mass and energy
together in the
famous E equals MC
squared equation of Einstein.
Light sets the speed limit
for the physical plane.
Modern physics says that
nothing in the physical world
can travel faster than
the speed of light.
This has all led to the concept
that everything physical is
actually made of light and
that physical matter is simply
light energy in a specific
state of materialization.
Ancient traditions
knew that when
consciousness is
experienced externally,
it appears as light.
And when light appears
internally, inside of us,
we experience it
as consciousness.
This is why auras
of brilliant light
are always shown in
classical traditions
around great initiates,
either just around their head,
with the activation of
their consciousness,
or around their entire
body and energy field,
with higher levels of initiation
and self-transformation.
This brings us to
what we might call
the first letter in the alphabet
of sacred geometry forms
which create the world.
This is the ancient
symbol of the point
in the center of the circle.
This was the hieroglyph for the
spiritual being of the sun, Ra,
in ancient Egypt, and became the
image for the sun in astrology.
Just as creation
comes from light,
the source of light and life in
our earthly lives is the sun.
This same symbol is used as
the sign for gold in alchemy.
Ancient traditions
understood gold
to be a physical crystallization
of the same energy
quality as in sunlight.
This pattern is also the sign
for the Godhead, the source
of creation in both the
Rosicrucian and Masonic
traditions, as
seen in this image,
based on the work of the
Rosicrucian initiate Rudolf
Steiner.
The Godhead is the divine unity,
the original unified field
where all is one.
The macrocosm is
the higher world
which emerges from that unity.
The macrocosm contains
the Godhead broken up
into discrete pieces, into a
multitude of spiritual beings,
worlds, and creative processes.
The microcosm contains that
same totality of the Godhead,
but broken up into
pieces of denser,
smaller levels of
manifestation, reaching down
to the vital energy, physical,
and electromagnetic levels.
We will see in a future
episode that the hexagram
of the macrocosm and the
pentagram of the microcosm
are sacred geometry
keys to unlocking
two essential levels
of every human being,
the astral body of consciousness
and the etheric or chronic body
of vital energy.
These are also key parts of
the Merkaba, the human soul
vehicle.
We have to switch
our understanding
of sacred geometry
from being static forms
to instead focus on
the living, dynamically
vibrating energy fields
which create these forms.
When dealing with
sacred geometry forms
like the point in the
center of the circle,
think of these forms as being
similar to electronic circuit
diagrams, showing energy
patterns which we can directly
apply for practical purposes.
The point in the
center of the circle
is a two-dimensional image.
It becomes in three
dimensions the point
in the center of the
sphere of creation,
with dynamic movement
between the center
and the boundary of
creation within the sphere.
In modern physics, the
so-called Big Bang Theory
is misunderstood by most
of the general public.
The theory does not say that
some unknown explosion filled
up an already existing space
and time with physical things.
Rather, it says that an
original outward movement
from a zero-dimensional
point, the singularity,
created space and time
through the outward expansion
of the point, which
created an expanding
sphere of the three-dimensional
physical world that we live in.
In other words, a sacred
geometric movement
from the point to the
surrounding sphere
is the foundation of all
creation in modern physics.
The concept that
the geometric center
is the source of all creation
and is a literal gateway
to the divine plane is found in
classical spiritual traditions.
It is prominent in the
Indian tradition as the Bindu
point of divine light,
found in the exact center
of Indian Yantras, of the
mandalas of Eastern traditions,
and sacred geometric
forms in general.
In modern times, Dr. Ibrahim
Karim of Cairo, Egypt
has demonstrated that there
is a powerful, subtle energy
quality that is literally
present in the center
of all geometric forms.
This powerful
energy of the center
appears in both two-dimensional
geometric drawings
and in three-dimensional forms.
As long as the
boundary information
of the geometric form
is present in space,
like a conducting wire
in an electrical circuit,
this subtle energy
appears in the center
of the geometric form.
Dr. Karim developed methods
to directly detect and apply
this powerful subtle
energy of the center,
leading to the creation
of the new energy science
called biogeometry, the
subtle energy quality
from the geometric center.
Dr. Karim was able
to demonstrate
replicable biological
effects on living beings
at the Egyptian
National Research Center
and in multiple international
university and medical studies.
Classical traditions
described the act of creation
from the center as moving
through multiple levels
of densification, which are
referred to as spiritual planes
or as the planes of nature.
The initial
zero-dimensional point
of creation, which physics calls
the singularity, in metaphysics
is known as the divine plane.
This point of the
divine plane is the key
to the unified field,
beyond any polarity
which exists in lower
worlds of manifestation.
Dr. Karim has created a new
multidimensional wave model,
describing the different
planes of manifestation
and showing which
geometric shapes are
in resonance with each plane.
In practical biogeometry
applications,
these shapes can
act like antennas
to focus on a specific plane
to either detect and analyze
their energy or to direct
energy to or from that plane.
The highest plane, the
divine, manifests its energy
through the
zero-dimensional point,
which manifests in the center
of all geometric forms.
The circle and sphere, the
perfect balanced containers
for creation, resonate
with the physical plane,
where vibrations
crystallize into matter.
When we connect the
highest and the lowest
planes in Dr. Karim's
model, we see the point
in the center of the
circle for what it really
is, the divine unity
plane in the center
of the physical
world of creation.
Dr. Karim's discovery
is connected
to other scientific discoveries.
Recent experiments using laser
light to create cavitations
within water, which are
empty spheres or bubbles,
have shown incredible effects
which cannot be explained
by modern science.
When this water
bubble collapses,
it releases both
light and sound,
a phenomenon known
as sonoluminescence.
The instant the water
bubble collapses, it also
releases a tremendous
amount of excess energy.
In one experiment, when linked
to a pump with 840 watts input,
it produced 2,800 watts of
power, an increase of over 300%
of the input energy, considered
impossible in modern physics,
but explained in research
papers as a possible release
of hidden energy from
the quantum vacuum, which
some people call
zero-point energy.
Studies of the
collapsing water cavity
have found that this collapse
creates for a millisecond heat
of over 5,000 Kelvin.
The surface of the
sun is 5,800 Kelvin.
Just as Dr. Karim's work
shows a subtle energy which
affects biological life coming
from the center of the sphere
and all geometric forms, so
sonoluminescence research
proves massive
millisecond releases
from the center of collapsing
spherical structures in water.
So we have now explored
the first secret,
how the point in the
center of the circle image
is a packed thought form
in the mind of God, which
holds encoded
information about how
the divine geometric center, the
singularity, the unified field
manifests the sphere
of physical creation.
We now come to a
second great secret
of sacred geometry, which is
that every human being can
develop the ability to
perceive, create, and send
these divine pact thought
forms of sacred geometry.
The precise methods
of how to do this
have been hidden in
closed initiation
circles for thousands of years.
In the Kabbalah,
the mind of God is
described as an ocean of fire,
which is pure consciousness.
Every human being receives a
spark from this ocean of fire.
And this divine spark becomes
our immortal spirit core,
our microcosmic part of
the one universal being.
This flame of our higher spirit
core ignites above our head
during advanced forms
of spiritual initiation.
This is seen in the
Indian tradition
with the flame
appearing above the head
when a person
becomes twice born.
And in Christianity, it
is seen in the flames
above the heads
of the disciples,
led by Mary Magdalene
at Pentecost.
In the Western
spiritual tradition,
it is said that humanity is
the microcosm of the macrocosm
and that we are the
crown of creation.
This means that every
human being has within them
all the planes of creation,
all the powers of the Godhead,
but in a latent and sleeping
form, which must be awakened.
This is a process of
illumination, in other words,
increasing our
internal light, which
we have seen as the
external manifestation
of divine consciousness itself.
We have this incredible
slumbering potential
because we are a direct
emanation of the Godhead,
reduced in scale to
the microcosmic level,
but with all the inherent
qualities and powers
of the divine.
The law of attraction, that you
will attract to yourself what
you create in your
consciousness,
is an example of modern
teachings on the power
of the human mind to create.
Science of mind and related
mental healing methods
are examples of the
power of the human mind
to heal and to create the
fundamental conditions
of both illness and health,
depending on how skillfully we
use our minds.
Many healers have
found that when
they combine the clear,
focused creation of a thought
form holding the desired state
of health with whatever method
of healing they are applying
that the results improve,
sometimes miraculously.
This method is
very powerful when
the light of our
consciousness, our mind power,
is focused and coherent,
like a laser light.
It is also strengthened when
beneficial spiritual beings
and energies are lovingly
asked to help with the healing.
This ability to perceive
or create thought forms
at the higher
macrocosmic level is not
based on thinking in words.
It is a higher-order thinking
in mental images, in sounds,
in internal vibrational states.
It is a thinking
that lives and plays
in the vibrational essence
behind physical things.
In humanity's current
state of evolution,
we break down
information into thinking
in words, one word at
a time to represent
every separate component
of the thought.
And then we slowly build
up larger concepts.
But this is a very slow method.
But for angelic beings and more
advanced nonphysical beings,
they can communicate through
an instantaneous transmission
of a thought form containing
densely packed information.
We can use the terminology of
the late French medical doctor
Samuel Sagan, founder of the
Modern Clairvision School,
and call these higher-level
dense packets of consciousness
packed thought forms.
Every human being
has experienced
this type of packed
thought form when
we have been thinking
about some issue
and then we get into
a relaxed state.
And then in this open state, we
receive a packed thought form
in an instant, which
contains a huge amount
of embedded information.
This is the eureka moment.
This is the vision received
in the vision quest.
This is the
transmission received
from the spiritual teacher
or an angelic being.
This is the opening
of our awareness
to merge with a higher
field of consciousness.
This secret of
packed thought forms
brings us to our third secret,
that the sacred geometric
structures of the
human energy body
are keys to access our
latent spiritual powers.
The difference between
an ordinary person
and a spiritual adept
is that the latter
has an energy field which is
highly activated and sacred
geometrically structured.
This makes available
to them higher states
of consciousness and
other powers, which
appear magical to ordinary
people who are stuck
in dense, toxic energy fields.
For this reason,
hidden traditions
of initiation around the
world train their students
to understand where the
key spiritual centers are
in their energy field
and how to activate them.
This knowledge of the
sacred geometry structures
of the human energy
system opens up
a hidden world, which controls
health and illness, our mind
and emotions, and our
latent spiritual potential.
There are many different
sacred geometry structures
in our energy bodies.
It's a huge science in itself.
Let's clarify now just
a few structures which
provide the background we
need for the powerful energy
activation practice
you will learn
at the end of this episode.
The primary energy
axis of our body
is our central column
of energy, which
runs in the absolute
vertical midline of our body,
from the crown center
to the perineum
at the base of the abdomen.
This central column
is not the same
as the spinal energy circuit
described in many traditions.
The very existence of this
midline central column
was kept secret by
many traditions.
And it features prominently
in many of the most powerful
spiritual activation practices.
In the exact center
of the central column
runs a golden thread
of divine energy,
which holds the
original unity energy
of the divine plane inside the
central column in our body.
The seven primary energy
centers on our central column
are known today by their Indian
name, chakras, meaning wheel,
because they appear on the
front and back of the body
as spinning vortices of energy.
For the five chakras from the
third eye, or Ajna center,
in the head, down to
the sexual chakra,
the vortices that each
of these five chakras
are paired up in the front
and the back of the body.
The tips of the
two vortices meet
at the golden thread in the very
center of the central column.
The very top and bottom chakras
along the central channel
in our body, the crown, or
Sahasrara center, and the base,
or Muladhara center,
are connected together
in their own vertical
vortex pair right
on the central column itself.
Our central column
continues down
from the perineum at
the base of the abdomen
to go between our legs and then
below our feet into the earth
to ground us, and also continues
in the opposite direction,
above the human head, to connect
us to higher consciousness
centers.
The energy centers
in our physical body
can only hold a certain
intensity level of power.
Otherwise, their
high level of voltage
would burn out the smaller,
subtle energy circuits
in the human body,
which are referred to as
Nadis in the Indian tradition.
However, energy centers
in our subtle energy field
outside of our physical body
can hold much higher energy
intensity.
This means that the
true energy centers
we need to activate in
order to fully perceive,
create, and transmit packed
thought forms are actually
outside the physical body
in our greater energy field.
However, before we can
activate these higher centers
outside of the physical
body in a balanced way,
we must activate and have
our spirit fully inhabit
the key chakras in our body.
In our modern culture, which is
very intellectual and thinking
centric, the third eye chakra
is often the first chakra
to be activated.
The third eye
chakra is named Ajna
in Sanskrit, which means both
to perceive and to command.
We can use the mind
power and light generated
by the activated third
eye chakra to help
activate all of the other
chakras in the body and energy
field.
The third eye chakra
is often misunderstood
in Western circles to
be an energy center
only in the front of the
head between the eyebrows.
But as we have seen,
there's actually
a front and back vortex pair
connecting at the third eye
chakra.
In reality, the third eye is
a multidimensional geometric
structure which runs as a
horizontal cylinder of energy
from between the
eyebrows, connects
to the central column in
the center of the head,
and then continues through
to the back of your head.
Just as the three
90-degree axes of space
define the three
dimensional physical world,
so it defines the sacred
space in the center
of the third cylinder.
We can call the three axes
of space the cubical cross,
because it is a cross
in three dimensions
rather than just two dimensions.
And this three-axis cross is
the structural infrastructure
of the cube shape connected
to three-dimensional physical
manifestation.
The first axis of the
cubical cross in the head
is the front-back
axis just mentioned,
the horizontal cylinder
of energy running
from between the eyebrows
to the area of the bump
in the back of your head.
The second 90-degree axis is
the top-down vertical line
of the central column
we discussed previously.
The third axis is the
side-to-side axis.
This can be experienced
by putting your attention
at the top of both
ears and becoming
aware of an axis running
through the two brain
hemispheres and
the corpus callosum
between the hemispheres.
Where these three axes meet in
the cubicle cross of our head
is at the location of the
third ventricle of the brain.
This is a key spiritual
center in the human body
called the Cave of Brahma
in the Indian tradition.
This is a large open
area of the brain,
through which flows the
cerebrospinal fluid,
a true water of life.
The cerebrospinal fluid
is a completely different
bodily fluid system than the
blood or the lymph systems.
It is literally a
liquid ocean which
pulses through the
human spine and brain,
making life and movement
possible in the human body.
On the periphery of
the third ventricle,
within this liquid ocean
are both the pineal
and the pituitary glands.
These glands are understood
in classical traditions
to be the key anchors
for spiritual development
in the human body.
In addition to their powerful
physical functions as sources
of neurotransmitters and
body-regulating secretions,
by activating the center
area of the cubical cross
in the head, the Cave of
Brahma, your entire head system
is both activated
and stabilized.
Activating the
Cave of Brahma also
ignites other energy
activations throughout
the entire human energy field.
This brings us now
to a fourth secret,
that these hidden practices
to activate the human energy
system do so by applying the
exact same sacred geometry
patterns which
created our world.
These key patterns move
energy in the major centers
and circuits of the human
body, and thereby activate
our full spiritual potential.
This fourth secret connects
us to the energetic practice
from our first
episode, where you
learned to activate
the first segment
of the powerful net energy
grid of the human body, which
we call the grid of
life design, or GOLD.
In that first
practice, you learned
to connect three powerful
energy centers around your head
into a golden triangle,
which clears and elevates
our consciousness
to higher levels.
However, we performed that
practice in a very simple way,
just putting our
attention on each
of the three energy centers and
then mentally connecting them.
We can now make these energy
activations much stronger
and more effective by using
a precise sacred geometry
pattern.
This advanced method applies
the core manifestation pattern
we explored earlier in
this episode, the point
in the center of
the circle, which
is the dynamic movement
from the divine unity
center to the spherical boundary
of creation and back again.
To apply this powerful pattern
for energy activations,
we must first understand
that to live and survive
in our external
three-dimensional physical
world, we usually move
our attention outwards
through our physical senses,
out into all directions
in the world around us.
This is the movement
from the divine center
to the surrounding sphere,
the external boundary.
The first part of this
energy activation practice
is to reverse the usual outward
movement of our attention
back into the center
which it comes from.
To put it very simply,
for physical awareness,
we move outwards
to our periphery.
For spiritual awareness, we
move the opposite direction,
inwards, back into the center.
By pulling our attention
back into the very center
of any energy
center in the body,
we move through layers
of the subtle body
until we touch the divine
core at the center,
the zero-dimensional
point, or zero point.
By pulling our energy
and consciousness back
into the divine center,
we activate that center.
When activated, this center
then reverses the direction
of movement so that
we switch again
from going inward to now having
the activated energy center
radiate outwards
in all directions.
This natural countermovement
radiates from the center
back out to the periphery, but
with a much stronger awakened
power than before, now pouring
out from that energy center.
This creates in our energy
body an expanding sphere
radiating out from
that center point
to create a radiant sun
around that energy center.
The effect of this practice
is described and illustrated
in virtually every world
tradition showing a radiant
sun of energy around
a person's head
or their heart or other
activated energy centers.
This is the aura of an
awakened master, an initiate.
This method has two stages.
The first stage is
the inward movement
of our energy and awareness
into the center point
of an energy center.
When our inwardly-moving
consciousness
touches the divine
center, this profoundly
activates the energy
center we are focusing on.
This first stage we will call
zero-point centering, or ZPC
for short.
The second stage is
the outward expansion
from the divine center
when it has been activated,
turning that energy
center we are focusing on
into our radiant sun.
We will call the second
stage the radiance stage.
What we are calling zero-point
centering and radiance are
known by a variety of names
in different traditions--
center and periphery, expansion
and contraction, involution
and exvolution, divine
pulsation, et cetera.
Unfortunately, when most modern
systems teach this practice,
they almost always teach
only one of the two phases,
ignoring or dismissing
the other phase.
Eastern systems
tend to focus only
on the inward movement, the
zero-point centering movement
into the center, whereas Western
systems tend to focus only
on the outward movement,
the radiance out
into the surrounding sphere.
This is a common
metaphysical problem.
Many of our modern
spiritual practices
are based on shattered
fragments of the whole,
with key parts of the practice
missing because we don't
understand the full pattern.
Sacred geometry holds
the key to understanding
the complete pattern.
It is essential that both
parts of this practice,
the inwards and
outwards movements,
are used together to create
the optimal balanced activation
of any energy center.
Otherwise, it's like trying
to walk and move forward
by only using one
foot or breathing
by only using in
breath or out breath,
which ignores the healthy
rhythm of alternating
the opposite poles
of the practice.
We can perform this practice
on any energy center
in the body to activate it.
We could even use this
method to activate an energy
center in another person's
body through putting
our mind inside
their energy center
and creating this
movement pattern.
This activation of
an energy center
helps to fully manifest that
center's inherent powers.
This awakens the
slumbering divine powers
within any energy
center of our body,
while also balancing
and restoring harmony
and opening up perception of
higher, nonphysical realities.
Please keep in mind that
external explanations
like these are
essential to understand
these deep initiation processes.
However, we must be
careful not to fall
into the common trap of
modern spirituality, which
is to intellectually
understand a concept,
but to have never
really experienced
the full reality of it.
Only by experiencing
the practice will
you truly know and
be benefited by it.
Previously we created the
Golden Triangle around the head
in episode one.
Now we will activate
the Cave of Brahma
in the center of the
three-axis cross in the head.
This area is a master controller
of the brain and body,
of the entire sacred geometry
net of the human energy field.
The Cave of Brahma can
activate a wide range
of new powers, abilities,
and states of consciousness.
The practice you
are about to learn
is almost never
described publicly.
Instead, it is encoded in
sacred geometric imagery,
the same way many
hidden practices
are encoded in sacred
geometry images which
are understood by initiates,
but are thought to be simply
symbolic by the general public.
For example, this
activation of the Cave
of Brahma in the cubicle
cross of the head
was encoded in the
Christian tradition
through the Chi Rho symbol
of early Christianity,
in which the Greek
letter rho, which
looks like an English
capital P, created
the vertical axis of
the cubical cross,
and the letter chi,
looking like an English X,
created the two horizontal axes,
which when flattened into 2D
looks like an X.
This was a symbol
for Christ, or more
precisely for Christ
consciousness,
the activation of the
spiritual center in the head
into a radiant sun
of divine light.
This was not only a
general representation
of the cubical cross as the
three axes of physical space,
but was specifically shown
in the classical images
to be inside the head,
where icons of Christ
show the vertical axis
down through the crown
center and the horizontal axis
through the top of the ears,
meeting at the Cave of Brahma
in the center of the head.
This practice is
actually quite simple.
However, when you
first perform it,
you will have to
train your energy body
to learn this new movement.
Just as we have to train the
physical muscles of our body
to perform the movements
of a new sport or activity,
so we have energetic
muscles in our energy field
which most people have
no idea even exist.
These energetic muscles
are in an atrophied state,
just as if we had not used a
physical muscle for decades.
So in the beginning,
we will need
to apply more effort to flex
this atrophied energetic muscle
again.
But through repeated
practice, you
will find it easier and
easier each time to make
the sacred geometric
energy movement.
The practice becomes in time
almost effortless and more
powerful and tangible
with every repetition.
This powerful contraction
expansion at any energy center
brings it back to
life and pulsating,
just as expansion
and contraction
of a physical muscle
during weightlifting
leads to physical growth.
This practice of zero-point
centering and radiance,
done specifically in the
center of the cubicle cross
in the Cave of Brahma,
may also activate
a range of internal energy
circuits in your body,
giving rise to sensations or
internal perceptions of light,
color, and vibration.
In summary, this is a
very effective practice
which will allow you to
powerfully activate any energy
center in your field.
If you'd like to do
the practice now,
please see the companion
video for this episode.
Otherwise, please
set an intention
to come back and do the
practice at a later time.
Please join us for
our next episode,
where we will explore the
sacred geometry secrets
of the cup of the Holy Grail.
And you will learn
how to use this form
to activate and recharge
your entire energetic field.
See you then.
[THEME MUSIC]